cloud: update export doc (#18605)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage.md

---
title: Configure TiDB Serverless External Storage Access
summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access, Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access and Azure Blob Storage access.
---

# Configure External Storage Access for TiDB Serverless

If you want to import data from or export data to an external storage in a TiDB Serverless cluster, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to an external storage, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Serverless clusters.

> If you need to configure these external storages for a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to configure these external storages for a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Configure External Storage for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).
```

## Configure Amazon S3 access

To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for the cluster. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Role ARN">

> It is recommended that you use AWS CloudFormation to create a role ARN. Take the following steps to create one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you use [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html) to create a role ARN. Take the following steps to create one:
```

1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Open the **Add New ARN** pop-up window.

>     1. Click **Import from S3** or **Export to Amazon S3** according to your needs.
> 
>     2. Fill in the **Folder URI** or **File URI** according to the instructions.
> 
>     3. Choose **AWS Role ARN** and click **Click here to create new one with AWS CloudFormation** to open the **Add New ARN** pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - If you want to import data from Amazon S3, open the **Add New ARN** dialog as follows:
    
        1. Click **Import from S3**.
        2. Fill in the **File URI** field.
        3. Choose **AWS Role ARN** and click **Click here to create new one with AWS CloudFormation**.
        
     - If you want to export data to Amazon S3, open the **Add New ARN** dialog as follows:
     
        1. Click **Click here to export data to**  > **Amazon S3**.
        2. Fill in the **Folder URI** field.
        3. Choose **AWS Role ARN** and click **Click here to create new one with AWS CloudFormation**.       
```

> 3. Create a role ARN with AWS CloudFormation Template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a role ARN with AWS CloudFormation template.
```

>     1. Click **AWS Console with CloudFormation Template** in the **Add New ARN** pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. In the **Add New ARN** dialog, click **AWS Console with CloudFormation Template**.
```

>     2. Log in to the AWS and you will be redirected to the AWS CloudFormation Template page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Log in to the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) and you will be redirected to the AWS CloudFormation **Quick create stack** page.
```

    3. Fill in the **Role Name**.

    4. Acknowledge to create a new role and click **Create stack** to create the role ARN.

    5. After the CloudFormation stack is executed, you can find the Role ARN value in the **Outputs** tab.
   
        ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/serverless-role-arn.png)

If you have any trouble creating a role ARN with AWS CloudFormation, you can take the following steps to create one manually:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<details>
<summary>Click here to see details</summary>

```

> 1. In the **Add New ARN** pop-up window described in the previous section, click **Having trouble? Create Role ARN manually**. You will get the **TiDB Cloud Account ID** and **TiDB Cloud External ID**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. 1. In the **Add New ARN** dialog described in previous instructions, click **Having trouble? Create Role ARN manually**. You will get the **TiDB Cloud Account ID** and **TiDB Cloud External ID**.
```

2. In the AWS Management Console, create a managed policy for your Amazon S3 bucket.

>     1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the [Amazon S3 console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Sign in to the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/)  and open the [Amazon S3 console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/).
```

        - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>"`, for example, `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data"`.

        - If you have enabled AWS Key Management Service key (SSE-KMS) with customer-managed key encryption, make sure the following configuration is included in the policy. `"arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f"` is a sample KMS key of the bucket.

            ```
            {
                "Sid": "AllowKMSkey",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f"
            }
            ```

        - If the objects in your bucket have been copied from another encrypted bucket, the KMS key value needs to include the keys of both buckets. For example, `"Resource": ["arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f","arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:495580073302:key/0d7926a7-6ecc-4bf7-a9c1-a38f0faec0cd"]`.

>     6. Click **Next: Tags**, add a tag of the policy (optional), and then click **Next:Review**.
> 
>     7. Set a policy name, and then click **Create policy**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    6. Click **Next**.
    
    7. Set a policy name, add a tag of the policy (optional), and then click **Create policy**.
```

        - In **An AWS account**, select **Another AWS account**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud account ID to the **Account ID** field.
        - In **Options**, click **Require external ID (Best practice when a third party will assume this role)**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud External ID to the **External ID** field. If the role is created without a Require external ID, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.

    3. Click **Next** to open the policy list, choose the policy you just created, and then click **Next**.
   
    4. In **Role details**, set a name for the role, and then click **Create role** in the lower-right corner. After the role is created, the list of roles is displayed.
   
    5. In the list of roles, click the name of the role that you just created to go to its summary page, and then you can get the role ARN.

        ![Copy AWS role ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-role-arn.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

</details>

```

</div>

<div label="Access Key">

It is recommended that you use an IAM user (instead of the AWS account root user) to create an access key.

Take the following steps to configure an access key:

1. Create an IAM user. For more information, see [creating an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html#id_users_create_console).

2. Use your AWS account ID or account alias, and your IAM user name and password to sign in to [the IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam).

> 3. Create an access key. For more details, see [creating an access key for an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create an access key. For more information, see [creating an access key for an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey).
```

---
title: Configure TiDB Serverless External Storage Access
summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access, Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access and Azure Blob Storage access.
---

# Configure External Storage Access for TiDB Serverless

> If you want to import data from or export data to an external storage in TiDB Serverless, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to an external storage, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to import data from or export data to an external storage in a TiDB Serverless cluster, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to an external storage, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Serverless clusters.
```

> If you need to configure these external storages for TiDB Dedicated, see [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to configure these external storages for TiDB Dedicated clusters, see [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).
```

## Configure Amazon S3 access

> To allow a iDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:
```

> To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for the cluster. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:
```

- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Role ARN">

> It is recommended that you use AWS CloudFormation to create a role ARN.
> 
> Take the following steps to create one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that you use AWS CloudFormation to create a role ARN. Take the following steps to create one:
```

> 1. Open the **Import & Export** page for your target cluster.
> 
>     1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.
> 
>     2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import & Export** in the left navigation pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.
```

    3. Fill in the **Role Name**.

    4. Acknowledge to create a new role and click **Create stack** to create the role ARN.

    5. After the CloudFormation stack is executed, you can find the Role ARN value in the **Outputs** tab.
   
        ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/serverless-role-arn.png)

If you have any trouble creating a role ARN with AWS CloudFormation, you can take the following steps to create one manually:

1. In the **Add New ARN** pop-up window described in the previous section, click **Having trouble? Create Role ARN manually**. You will get the **TiDB Cloud Account ID** and **TiDB Cloud External ID**.

2. In the AWS Management Console, create a managed policy for your Amazon S3 bucket.

    1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the [Amazon S3 console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/).
   
    2. In the **Buckets** list, choose the name of your bucket with the source data, and then click **Copy ARN** to get your S3 bucket ARN (for example, `arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data`). Take a note of the bucket ARN for later use.

        ![Copy bucket ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/copy-bucket-arn.png)

>     3. Open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Policies** in the navigation pane on the left, and then click **Create Policy**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Policies** in the left navigation pane, and then click **Create Policy**.
```

        ![Create a policy](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-create-policy.png)

    4. On the **Create policy** page, click the **JSON** tab.
   

>     5. Configure the policy in the policy text field according to your needs. Here is an example which can be used to export from and import to TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. Configure the policy in the policy text field according to your needs. The following is an example that you can use to export data from and import data to a TiDB Serverless cluster.
```

        ```json
        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:GetObject",
                        "s3:GetObjectVersion",
                        "s3:PutObject"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of your source data>/*"
                },
                {
                    "Sid": "VisualEditor1",
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:ListBucket",
                        "s3:GetBucketLocation"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>"
                }
            ]
        }
        ```

>         In the policy text field, update the following configurations to your own values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In the policy text field, replace the following configurations with your own values.
```

>         - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of the source data>/*"`
> 
>             For example, if your source data is stored in the root directory of the `tidb-cloud-source-data` bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/*"`. If your source data is stored in the `mydata` directory of the bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/mydata/*"`. Make sure that `/*` is added to the end of the directory so TiDB Cloud can access all files in this directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of the source data>/*"`. For example, 
        
            - If your source data is stored in the root directory of the `tidb-cloud-source-data` bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/*"`. 
            - If your source data is stored in the `mydata` directory of the bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/mydata/*"`. 
            
          Make sure that `/*` is added to the end of the directory so TiDB Cloud can access all files in this directory.
```

            ```
            {
                "Sid": "AllowKMSkey",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Action": [
                    "kms:Decrypt"
                ],
                "Resource": "arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f"
            }
            ```

        - If the objects in your bucket have been copied from another encrypted bucket, the KMS key value needs to include the keys of both buckets. For example, `"Resource": ["arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f","arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:495580073302:key/0d7926a7-6ecc-4bf7-a9c1-a38f0faec0cd"]`.

    6. Click **Next: Tags**, add a tag of the policy (optional), and then click **Next:Review**.

    7. Set a policy name, and then click **Create policy**.

3. In the AWS Management Console, create an access role for TiDB Cloud and get the role ARN.

>     1. In the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Roles** in the navigation pane on the left, and then click **Create role**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. In the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Roles** in the left navigation pane, and then click **Create role**.
```

        ![Create a role](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-create-role.png)

    2. To create a role, fill in the following information:

>         - Under **Trusted entity type**, select **AWS account**.
>         - Under **An AWS account**, select **Another AWS account**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud account ID to the **Account ID** field.
>         - Under **Options**, click **Require external ID (Best practice when a third party will assume this role)**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud External ID to the **External ID** field. If the role is created without a Require external ID, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.
> 
>     3. Click **Next** to open the policy list, choose the policy you just created, and then click **Next**.
>    
>     4. Under **Role details**, set a name for the role, and then click **Create role** in the lower-right corner. After the role is created, the list of roles is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - In **Trusted entity type**, select **AWS account**.
        - In **An AWS account**, select **Another AWS account**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud account ID to the **Account ID** field.
        - In **Options**, click **Require external ID (Best practice when a third party will assume this role)**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud External ID to the **External ID** field. If the role is created without a Require external ID, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.

    3. Click **Next** to open the policy list, choose the policy you just created, and then click **Next**.
   
    4. In **Role details**, set a name for the role, and then click **Create role** in the lower-right corner. After the role is created, the list of roles is displayed.
```

        ![Copy AWS role ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-role-arn.png)

</div>

<div label="Access Key">

It is recommended that you use an IAM user (instead of the AWS account root user) to create an access key.

Take the following steps to configure an access key:

1. Create an IAM user. For more information, see [creating an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html#id_users_create_console).

2. Use your AWS account ID or account alias, and your IAM user name and password to sign in to [the IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam).

3. Create an access key. For more details, see [creating an access key for an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey).

> **Note:**
>
> TiDB Cloud does not store your access keys. It is recommended that you [delete the access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey) after the import is complete.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Configure GCS access

> To allow TiDB Serverless to access your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for the bucket. You can use service account key to configure the bucket access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for the bucket. You can use service account key to configure the bucket access:
```

Take the following steps to configure a service account key:

> 1. Click **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT** to create a service account in the Google Cloud [service account page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts). For more information, see [Creating a service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT** to create a service account on the Google Cloud [service account page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts). For more information, see [Creating a service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts).
```

    1. Enter a service account name.
    2. Enter a description of the service account (Optional). 

>     3. Click **CREATE AND CONTINUE** to create the service account and continue the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Click **CREATE AND CONTINUE** to create the service account.
```

>     4. In the `Grant this service account access to project`, choose the [IAM roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) with needed permission. For example, TiDB Serverless export needs a role with `storage.objects.create` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4. In the `Grant this service account access to project`, choose the [IAM roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) with the needed permission. For example, exporting data to a TiDB Serverless cluster needs a role with `storage.objects.create` permission.
```

    5. Click **Continue** to the next step.
    6. Optional: In the `Grant users access to this service account`, choose members that need to [attach the service account to other resources](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/attach-service-accounts).
    7. Click **Done** to finish creating the service account.

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account.png)

> 2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button in the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button on the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 
```

> 2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button on the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the service account and then click **ADD KEY** on the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 
```

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account-key.png)

3. Choose the default `JSON` key type and click the **CREATE** button to download the service account key.

4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:

    ```bash
    base64 -i gcp-xxx.json
    ```

## Configure Azure Blob Storage access

> To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use service SAS token to configure the container access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use the service SAS token to configure the container access:
```

Take the following steps to configure a service SAS token:

> 1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to on the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to on the [Azure Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.
```

> 2. On your `storage account` page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On your **Storage account** page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.
```

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/azure-sas.png)

> 3. On the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create a service SAS token with needed permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).
```

>     1. Choose the `Blob` service under the `Allowed services` section.
>     2. Choose the `Container` and `Object` under the `Allowed Resource types` section.
>     3. Choose the permission under the `Allowed permissions` section as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs `Read` and `Write` permission.
>     4. Adjust the `Start and expiry date/time` as you needed.
>     5. You can keep other settings as default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Choose the **Blob** service under the **Allowed services** section.
    2. Choose the **Container** and **Object** under the **Allowed Resource types** section.
    3. Choose the permission under the **Allowed permissions** section as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs **Read** and **Write** permission.
    4. Adjust the **Start and expiry date/time** as you needed.
    5. You can keep other settings as default.
```

>     1. In the **Allowed services** section, choose the **Blob** service.
>     2. In the **Allowed Resource types** section, choose the **Container** and **Object**.
>     3. In the **Allowed permissions** section, choose the permission as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs **Read** and **Write** permission.
>     4. Adjust the **Start and expiry date/time** as you needed.
>     5. You can keep other settings as default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. In the **Allowed services** section, choose the **Blob** service.
    2. In the **Allowed Resource types** section, choose **Container** and **Object**.
    3. In the **Allowed permissions** section, choose the permission as needed. For example, exporting data to a TiDB Serverless cluster needs the **Read** and **Write** permissions.
    4. Adjust the **Start and expiry date/time** as needed.
    5. You can keep other settings to use the default settings.
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Configure GCS access

To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for the bucket. You can use service account key to configure the bucket access:

Take the following steps to configure a service account key:

1. Click **CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT** to create a service account on the Google Cloud [service account page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts). For more information, see [Creating a service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts).

    1. Enter a service account name.
    2. Enter a description of the service account (Optional). 
    3. Click **CREATE AND CONTINUE** to create the service account.
    4. In the `Grant this service account access to project`, choose the [IAM roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) with the needed permission. For example, exporting data to a TiDB Serverless cluster needs a role with `storage.objects.create` permission.

>     5. Click **Continue** to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. Click **Continue** to go to the next step.
```

        ![Copy bucket ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/copy-bucket-arn.png)

    3. Open the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Policies** in the left navigation pane, and then click **Create Policy**.

        ![Create a policy](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-create-policy.png)

    4. On the **Create policy** page, click the **JSON** tab.
   
    5. Configure the policy in the policy text field according to your needs. The following is an example that you can use to export data from and import data to a TiDB Serverless cluster.

        ```json
        {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Sid": "VisualEditor0",
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:GetObject",
                        "s3:GetObjectVersion",
                        "s3:PutObject"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of your source data>/*"
                },
                {
                    "Sid": "VisualEditor1",
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:ListBucket",

>                         "s3:GetBucketLocation"

Reviewer 2: we don't need `s3:GetBucketLocation` any more.

    5. Click **Continue** to go to the next step.
    6. Optional: In the `Grant users access to this service account`, choose members that need to [attach the service account to other resources](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/attach-service-accounts).
    7. Click **Done** to finish creating the service account.

    ![service-account](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account.png)

2. Click the service account and then click **ADD KEY** on the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

    ![service-account-key](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account-key.png)

3. Choose the default `JSON` key type and click the **CREATE** button to download the service account key.

4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:

    ```bash
    base64 -i gcp-xxx.json

>     ```

Reviewer 2: we don't need this step I think. This is CLI specific

---
title: Configure TiDB Serverless External Storage Access
summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access, Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access and Azure Blob Storage access.
---

# Configure External Storage Access for TiDB Serverless

If you want import data from or export data to an external storage in TiDB Serverless, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to an external storage, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Serverless.

If you need to configure these external storages for TiDB Dedicated, see [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).

## Configure Amazon S3 access

To allow a iDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

> - Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
> - Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
```

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import & Export** in the left navigation pane.

2. Open the `Add New ARN` pop-up window.

    1. Click **Import from S3** or **Export to Amazon S3** according to your needs.

    2. Fill in the `Folder URI` or `File URI` according to the instructions.

    3. Choose **AWS Role ARN** and click **Click here to create new one with AWS CloudFormation** to open the **Add New ARN** pop-up window.
   
3. Create a role ARN with AWS CloudFormation Template.

    1. Click **AWS Console with CloudFormation Template** in the **Add New ARN** pop-up window.
   
    2. Log in to the AWS and you will be redirected to the AWS CloudFormation Template page.

    3. Fill in the **Role Name**.

    4. Acknowledge to create a new role and click **Create stack** to create the role ARN.

    5. After the CloudFormation stack is executed, you can find the Role ARN value in the **Outputs** tab.
   

>     ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/serverless-role-arn.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/serverless-role-arn.png)
```

                        "s3:GetObjectVersion",
                        "s3:PutObject"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of your source data>/*"
                },
                {
                    "Sid": "VisualEditor1",
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Action": [
                        "s3:ListBucket",
                        "s3:GetBucketLocation"
                    ],
                    "Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>"
                }
            ]
        }
        ```

        In the policy text field, update the following configurations to your own values.

        - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>/<Directory of the source data>/*"`

            For example, if your source data is stored in the root directory of the `tidb-cloud-source-data` bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/*"`. If your source data is stored in the `mydata` directory of the bucket, use `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data/mydata/*"`. Make sure that `/*` is added to the end of the directory so TiDB Cloud can access all files in this directory.

>         - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>"`
> 
>             For example, `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `"Resource": "<Your S3 bucket ARN>"`, for example, `"Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data"`.
```

            }
            ```

        - If the objects in your bucket have been copied from another encrypted bucket, the KMS key value needs to include the keys of both buckets. For example, `"Resource": ["arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:105880447796:key/c3046e91-fdfc-4f3a-acff-00597dd3801f","arn:aws:kms:ap-northeast-1:495580073302:key/0d7926a7-6ecc-4bf7-a9c1-a38f0faec0cd"]`.

    6. Click **Next: Tags**, add a tag of the policy (optional), and then click **Next:Review**.

    7. Set a policy name, and then click **Create policy**.

3. In the AWS Management Console, create an access role for TiDB Cloud and get the role ARN.

    1. In the [IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Roles** in the navigation pane on the left, and then click **Create role**.

        ![Create a role](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-create-role.png)

    2. To create a role, fill in the following information:

        - Under **Trusted entity type**, select **AWS account**.
        - Under **An AWS account**, select **Another AWS account**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud account ID to the **Account ID** field.

>         - Under **Options**, click **Require external ID (Best practice when a third party will assume this role)**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud External ID to the **External ID** field. If the role is created without "Require external ID", once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Under **Options**, click **Require external ID (Best practice when a third party will assume this role)**, and then paste the TiDB Cloud External ID to the **External ID** field. If the role is created without a Require external ID, once the configuration is done for one TiDB cluster in a project, all TiDB clusters in that project can use the same Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket. If the role is created with the account ID and external ID, only the corresponding TiDB cluster can access the bucket.
```

    6. Optional: In the `Grant users access to this service account`, choose members that need to [attach the service account to other resources](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/attach-service-accounts).
    7. Click **Done** to finish creating the service account.

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account.png)

2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button in the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account-key.png)

3. Choose the default `JSON` key type and click the **CREATE** button to download the service account key.

4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:

    ```bash
    base64 -i gcp-xxx.json
    ```

## Configure Azure Blob access

To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use service SAS token to configure the container access:

Take the following steps to configure a service SAS token:

> 1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to in the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to on the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.
```

> 2. In your `storage account` page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On your `storage account` page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.
```

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/azure-sas.png)

> 3. In the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).
```

- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Role ARN">

It is recommended that you use [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html) to create a role ARN. Take the following steps to create one:

1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Open the **Add New ARN** dialog.

    - If you want to import data from Amazon S3, open the **Add New ARN** dialog as follows:
    
        1. Click **Import from S3**.
        2. Fill in the **File URI** field.
        3. Choose **AWS Role ARN** and click **Click here to create new one with AWS CloudFormation**.
        
     - If you want to export data to Amazon S3, open the **Add New ARN** dialog as follows:
     

>         1. Click **Click here to export data to**  > **Amazon S3**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. Click **Export data to...**  > **Amazon S3**. If your cluster has neither imported nor exported any data before, click **Click here to export data to...** > **Amazon S3** at the bottom of the page.
```

If you need to configure these external storages for a TiDB Dedicated cluster, see [Configure External Storage for TiDB Dedicated](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).

## Configure Amazon S3 access

To allow a TiDB Serverless cluster to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for the cluster. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Role ARN">

It is recommended that you use [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/Welcome.html) to create a role ARN. Take the following steps to create one:

1. Open the **Import** page for your target cluster.

    1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/) and navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    2. Click the name of your target cluster to go to its overview page, and then click **Import** in the left navigation pane.

2. Open the **Add New ARN** dialog.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> title: Configure TiDB Cloud Serverless external storage access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configure TiDB Serverless External Storage Access
```

summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access, Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access and Azure Blob Storage access.
---

> # Configure TiDB Cloud Serverless external storage access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure External Storage Access for TiDB Serverless
```

> If you want import data from or export data to external storage in TiDB Cloud Serverless, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to external storage, such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Cloud Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want import data from or export data to external storage in TiDB Serverless, you need to configure cross-account access. This document describes how to configure access to an external storage, including Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), Google Cloud Storage (GCS) and Azure Blob Storage for TiDB Serverless.

If you need to configure these external storages for TiDB Dedicated, see [Configure Amazon S3 Access and GCS Access](/tidb-cloud/config-s3-and-gcs-access.md).
```

## Configure Amazon S3 access

> To allow TiDB Cloud Serverless to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Cloud Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Amazon S3 bucket, you need to configure the bucket access for TiDB Serverless. You can use either of the following methods to configure the bucket access:
```

- Use an AWS access key: use the access key of an IAM user to access your Amazon S3 bucket.
- Use a Role ARN: use a Role ARN to access your Amazon S3 bucket.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Role ARN">

> 

Reviewer: This part is to be added.

</div>
<div label="Access Key">

It is recommended that you use an IAM user (instead of the AWS account root user) to create an access key.

Take the following steps to configure an access key:

1. Create an IAM user. For more information, see [Creating an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_users_create.html#id_users_create_console).

2. Use your AWS account ID or account alias, and your IAM user name and password to sign in to [the IAM console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam).

3. Create an access key. For more details, see [Creating an access key for an IAM user](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey).

> **Note:**
>
> TiDB Cloud does not store your access keys. It is recommended that you [delete the access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html#Using_CreateAccessKey) after the import is complete.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Configure GCS access

> To allow TiDB Cloud Serverless to access your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for the bucket. You can use service account key to configure the bucket access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Serverless to access your GCS bucket, you need to configure the GCS access for the bucket. You can use service account key to configure the bucket access:
```

Take the following steps to configure a service account key:

1. Create a service account with needed permission in the Google Cloud [service account page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts). For more information, see [Creating a service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts).
   1. Enter a service account name.

>    2. Optional: Enter a description of the service account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Enter a description of the service account (Optional). 
```

   3. Click **CREATE AND CONTINUE** to create the service account and continue the next step.

>    4. In the `Grant this service account access to project`, choose the [IAM roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) with needed permission. For example, TiDB Cloud Serverless export needs a role with `storage.objects.create` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   4. In the `Grant this service account access to project`, choose the [IAM roles](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) with needed permission. For example, TiDB Serverless export needs a role with `storage.objects.create` permission.
```

   5. Click **Continue** to the next step.
   6. Optional: In the `Grant users access to this service account`, choose members that need to [attach the service account to other resources](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/attach-service-accounts).
   7. Click **Done** to finish creating the service account.

   ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account.png)

2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button in the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account-key.png)

3. Choose the default `JSON` key type and click the **CREATE** button to download the service account key.

> 4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:
> 
> ```bash
> base64 -i gcp-xxx.json
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:

    ```bash
    base64 -i gcp-xxx.json
    ```

```

## Configure Azure Blob access

> To allow TiDB Cloud Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use service SAS token to configure the container access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use service SAS token to configure the container access:
```

Take the following steps to configure a service SAS token:

> 1. Click your storage account where the container belong to in the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to in the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.

```

2. In your `storage account` page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/azure-sas.png)

3. In the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permission. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).
   1. Choose the `Blob` service under the `Allowed services` section.
   2. Choose the `Container` and `Object` under the `Allowed Resource types` section.

>    3. Choose the permission under the `Allowed permissions` section as you needed. For example: TiDB Cloud Serverless exports needs `Read` and `Write` permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Choose the permission under the `Allowed permissions` section as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs `Read` and `Write` permission.
```

2. Click the service account and then click the **ADD KEY** button in the `KEYS` page to create a service account key. 

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/gcs-service-account-key.png)

3. Choose the default `JSON` key type and click the **CREATE** button to download the service account key.

4. Open the downloaded JSON file and encode the content with base64. For example, you can use the following command to encode the content in the macOS terminal:

    ```bash
    base64 -i gcp-xxx.json
    ```

## Configure Azure Blob access

To allow TiDB Serverless to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use service SAS token to configure the container access:

Take the following steps to configure a service SAS token:

1. Click your storage account where the container belongs to in the [Azure storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page.

2. In your `storage account` page, click the **Security+network** and then click the **Shared access signature**.

    ![img.png](/media/tidb-cloud/serverless-external-storage/azure-sas.png)

> 3. In the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permission. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the `Shared access signature` page, create a service SAS token with needed permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).
```

>    1. Choose the `Blob` service under the `Allowed services` section.
>    2. Choose the `Container` and `Object` under the `Allowed Resource types` section.
>    3. Choose the permission under the `Allowed permissions` section as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs `Read` and `Write` permission.
>    4. Adjust the `Start and expiry date/time` as you needed.
>    5. You can keep other settings as default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Choose the `Blob` service under the `Allowed services` section.
    2. Choose the `Container` and `Object` under the `Allowed Resource types` section.
    3. Choose the permission under the `Allowed permissions` section as you needed. For example: TiDB Serverless exports needs `Read` and `Write` permission.
    4. Adjust the `Start and expiry date/time` as you needed.
    5. You can keep other settings as default.
```
